If used consistently (a half hour or more per day) over long periods
of time (months, years), listening to binaural and chronaural beats
will cause psychological change, and might cause profound
psychological change.  Presumably that is why you are doing this, but
now it is explicit.

If you are consciously aware of, or consciously suspect, that you have
severe psychological traumas that you have repressed, do not use
binaural or chronaural beats until you have resolved the traumas or
are comfortable that you can deal with them if they become conscious.
Very helpful to deal with such emotional issues is EFT
(www.emofree.com).  There are other effective techniques, but I have
found EFT to be easy to learn, easy to use, and fast acting, as well
as effective.  It doesn't hurt that the instruction manual is free.
While you can get great results using just the written instructions,
once you have some experience I recommend buying a training DVD or
attending a live course.  Be sure to sign up for the free newsletter
as you will be exposed to lots of people dealing with lots of issues
in various ways, expanding your repertoire.  There is also an
extensive archive for the newsletter free to search and read.

The use (overuse?) of binaural or chronaural beats can lead to a
condition called overwhelm.  Overwhelm can be recognized by a
disinterest in living, feelings that nothing matters, why bother,
irrational anger, irritability, etc.  It is caused by the disturbance
of too many emotional issues at once.  If this begins to happen, stop
listening until you regain your balance.  Again, EFT (www.emofree.com)
is helpful in this regard.  Practitioners usually experience this
because they want to change faster and so are overdoing it.  Brain
wave entrainment is best used as a gentle technique that slowly alters
your being.

The new beat voice added to discord, phase, seems with limited
experience, to be very potent.  Be careful when using it.

If you aren't careful with the amplitudes/volumes you can damage your
hearing.  Start at low amplitudes/volumes and increase slowly!

I have read on the internet that there is a slight chance that
binaural or chronaural beats in the Theta range can put susceptible
people into a seizure.  I am not sure whether this is urban legend or
not, as I don't recall seeing any testimonials or descriptions of
actual occurrences.  Just in case, you have been warned.

Given all the above potential drawbacks, why would you use brain wave
entrainment?  Over time you will find yourself becoming more solid,
more there, more centered while at the same time in a seeming
contradiction becoming lighter and freer.  The texture of your life
will change for the better.  Things that used to bother you, or events
and memories that haunted you will just stop having any effect on you.
Limitations that you didn't even know existed or question will melt
away.  Usually this won't happen with any fanfare.  One day you'll be
in a situation and suddenly notice that you are behaving differently
than you did in the past.  People you know might comment on how you've
changed.  So, be cognizant of the potential problems, but also realize
that there are rewards.

Finally, if you practice some flavor of formal meditation, the use of
binaural beats will enhance your practice.  Is it a replacement for
formal mediation?  Not in my opinion.  But just as a skier will have a
better experience with strength and aerobic training, so too will a
meditator with binaural beats.  Try it, you'll like it.  :-)
